docker artcthirure and exaplian
differenec CMD and ENTRYPOINT
what is multistage docker
what is layering
How to check the logs from the last 200 lines in a docker container
(docker container logs --tail 200 <containername>)
how to make small docker image
( smaller image base (alpine image) )
(multistage build)
(remove the package binaries after installing)
docker image vs layer
compose
without from layer is dockerfile will it build the image?

how in docker run command using non-root user
What is the difference between a Docker image and a Docker
container?

A Docker image is a static, immutable, file that
contains the definition of a Docker container,
including the application code, dependencies,
libraries, and runtime environment. A Docker
container is a running instance of a Docker image.
In other words, a Docker image is a blueprint, while
a Docker container is a running instance of that
blueprint.



What is a container?
A-A container is a lightweight, standalone, and executable package that includes everything needed to
run a piece of software, including code, runtime, libraries, and dependencies.

What are Docker networks and why are they used?
A-Docker networks allow containers to communicate with each other and with other non-containerized
devices on the same network. They are used to facilitate communication and isolation between
containers



What is a Docker swarm and how does it work?

A Docker swarm is a native clustering solution for
Docker that enables you to turn a group of Docker
nodes into a single virtual host. It allows you to
manage the deployment, scaling, and orchestration of
containers across multiple nodes in a swarm. The
swarm manager manages the swarm and the swarm
workers run the containers.


What is the purpose of Docker Compose and how does it
work?

Docker Compose is a tool for defining and running
multi-container Docker applications. It allows you to
define the services, networks, and volumes required by
the application in a single file, called a docker-
compose.yml file, and then start and stop the
application using a single command. Docker Compose
automates the process of building and deploying the
containers, making it easier to manage complex
applications.


What is the difference between the CMD and ENTRYPOINT
instructions in a Dockerfile?

The CMD instruction in a Dockerfile specifies the default command
that will be executed when a container is run from the image. The
CMD instruction can be overridden when the container is run,
allowing you to specify a different command to run.
The ENTRYPOINT instruction in a Dockerfile specifies the command
that will be executed when a container is run from the image, and
cannot be overridden. The ENTRYPOINT instruction is used to
specify the main command for the container, and any arguments
passed to the docker run command will be passed as arguments to
the ENTRYPOINT command.



What is the difference between a Docker image and a Docker
layer?
A Docker image is a complete package that includes all the
necessary files and metadata to run a piece of software. A
Docker layer is a component of a Docker image that
represents a change to the file system of the image.

Docker images are built from a series of layers, each of which
represents a change to the image. When you create a new
image, you start with a base image, and then add one or
more layers that modify the file system in some way. This
allows you to build images incrementally and reuse common
components across multiple images.



What is the difference between a Docker bridge network and
a Docker host network?
A Docker bridge network is a virtual network that is isolated
from the host system network. Containers on a bridge
network can communicate with each other and with the host
system, but they are isolated from the host system network.

A Docker host network is a network that connects containers
directly to the host system network. Containers on a host
network have the same network access as the host system,
and can communicate with other containers and with the
host system without any network isolation.


