
So yeah, let's go with your introduction as well and then we will come up with uh uh interview process. >> Yeah sure man Manish firstly thanks for giving this opportunity to me Manish. Uh okay let me start. Uh I am Sai Krishna. I have been working at DCS for over 3 years as a devops engineer. Currently I'm working for Lloyd's banking group project. Here we are using a GCP which means Google cloud platform as our cloud resource. And coming to my team details, we are a team of six members. We usually

get requests from the developers via J tickets and that includes like troubleshooting things like pipeline failures, port failures, URL is not working and apart from this uh we usually get the requests like uh creation of the resource using a terraform and end to end setup of microservices and uh as part of a devops team we usually involve in the deployments twice a week and coming to my skill sets uh I have a good hands-on experience with docker kubernetes terraform on Jenkins uh git and a little

bit on Linux and bash as well and coming to the cloud resources I have experience on AWS and GCP yeah myself >> okay thanks so uh if I talk about AWS what all AWS services have used >> yeah actually EC2 instances and S3 I know complete thing about the VPC part and apart from this I have a experience on cloudatch uh elastic beans stack and code pipeline and some rooting part 53 root 53. Yeah, these are things I know and coming to the databases we mostly use in the uh GCP only like a bigquery

spanner like these are things we use in the GCP. >> Yeah, >> it's okay. So let's start with the EC2 first. So in EC2 I have to uh make my server as a private one. Correct? So what kind of configuration I can do to make my server as a private? >> Yeah, actually it starts with the VPC thing Manish. Uh firstly we need to create our instance in the private subnet. Then it will be automatically inside the private uh server only. The thing you need to do making it a private is you need to connect the root tables

of your private server to the net gateway then it will be treated as a private server. >> Okay. And if I do not attach net gateway with my uh route table will it be private or not? >> Actually it has to be attached within routable net gateway otherwise if you attach to that uh internet gateway or uh other things then it won't be treated as a private private server. >> Okay. So what is the use of net gateway here? Yeah, actually it is like the thing which you want to communicate with the

public uh the requests which come from the uh internet to the your public server right that public server to the private server then add gateway is like intermediary thing that communicates with the private and the public >> okay so if I have to create a private subnet let me go with the same question if I have to create a private subnet why do we require net I can create private subet without net as well or private issue to >> but for the yeah we can create public and private whatever we want but the

purpose of creating a private is do not allow the things into the private subnet directly >> so using net only we can go into the private that is the use of net is utilized for internet correct I do not want the internet as well so why will I keep net as well >> uh if you do not want to communicate to the outside world of your private subnet or the private server then netgate fail is not required. Yeah, I didn't you talked about like the use case that I require net. Correct. I I don't have to

communicate. I have to keep the database. So I will just go with the private subnet only or I have to keep with the lambda function. So I will go with private submit. Net will be required when you want the communication. Correct. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Okay. So uh let uh let's talk about the AC2 only. I have a EC2 which has been created in uh public subnet and internet gateway and all connectivity is there. Now I want to make this public server as a private one and I do not have to touch

its route table. So how can I do? uh once it is treated as a public server then the things we need to do for making this private error is uh yeah not sure of it actually we didn't change the things once it is treated as a public then uh the completely it will be treated as a public server only so for making this private uh we need to connect the route tables of a to a page then that is the thing immediately >> okay if I have to uh assign any of the like just suppose that um I have a web

application which is hosted on AC2 instance correct and uh this web application is being uh like fetched from abc.com from the internet side that is my DNS for fetching the application correct >> there are end users for this application now this server has some issue and it's going down or it has been crashed there is some issue like co operating system issue or other three switch now I have to route the traffic to the second server I have I'm just going to create or you can think of like there's a

backup kind of thing where I'll be routing uh the uh traffic to the second server now correct the server number two domain will remain the same because for individual it should there there is no logic of changing the domain correct the request should be routed that's your back end purpose >> so how will you switch this uh server from first to the second keeping your IP address and your DNS the same. >> Yeah, your DNS actually for this thing we can >> uh your DNS should your DNS should route

to the same IP address. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Actually for this we can go with the auto scaling groups. Um we can create a multiple nodes or multiple servers inside our autoscaling group. Means it's like one of our I'm keeping only one server. It's a sing uh small application you can think of it's one EC2 instance is there on this particular EC2 instance my application called as ABC.com was there correct and this abc.com is routing to the IP address you can think of 12.13.15.17

correct this is the IP address on which abc.com is getting resolved right now the first EC2 instance has some issue and this ABC this IP address should now route to the second server abc.com will be Here it will remain the same. It's DNS IP address on which my DNS was getting resolved. That should also be the same. But it should now route to the second uh server. >> Okay. Means uh the server is destroyed but you want the same IP address to be the next server as well. >> Yes. >> Yeah. Not sure of this. Mish

>> elastic IP address. EIP. Have you heard? >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> It keeps it gives the same IP address for your server. Correct. >> Okay. Okay. >> So, you can you can like disassociate and associate the same IP address to another server and your DNS will again route to the same same IP and then I this this IP will be attached to the second server. So, your traffic will automatically get routed. Right. >> Okay. Thanks. Okay. >> Yeah. So, you mentioned about

autoscaling. So let's talk about that as well. So what are the parameters based on which you can create this autoscaling group actually for creating any autoscaling groups or anything that needs to be created automatically we have to create the target groups for that means what are all the instances or what are all the servers that needs to be in the part of autoscaling. So whatever if uh any of our server gets down or cached because of a heavy traffic then automatically with the same specifications the new

thing will be created in that autoscaling group itself and it will be having the same load balancing capabilities as well. Yeah, that's true. But what will be the parameter based on which you will do? Like there should be some parameter based on this factor. >> It's like a template thing. >> No, that's launch template like one of the parameter if I talk about it's the CPU utilization. So whenever CP utilization goes more than 70% or 60% to number of servers should be launched. So

what are all other parameters based on which we can create this sort of screen group. Actually yeah as you mentioned CPU utilization is one of the reason means like if process some particular percentage then automatically it has to be created to the new one and the other parameters are like uh >> yeah based on the traffic means like uh we can use the things like node affinity or uh taint tolerations all these things to our node. So if any of the part means like only one part is getting all the

requests or like these things we can use the load balancing there and we can shift our uh traffic to all the servers. >> What are the different kind of policies we can create in autoscaling? >> Not sure. >> Okay. Have you heard about dynamic scaling policy? >> Uhhuh. No. >> Okay. No issue. So if I talk about S3 service, so buckets are regional or global. >> Yeah, it's a regional only. >> Okay. S3 is regional one. That's what you are saying. Correct.

>> S3 is a regional service. Correct. This is what you said. Okay. Okay. So if I create uh a bucket and in as account A and there is another uh AWS account which is the common AWS account you can say or the shared AWS account you can say that's the naming convention we have passed >> and uh this AWS account is specifically used for storing the data for those customers for like the customers for which our agreement has been ended correct so there was a customer for 5 years and after 5 years their agreement

has ended so according according to our uh company policy, organization policy, we have to retain the data for an year and after that we can delete the data. Right? This is how it works. So I have to move the all S3 data from AWS account A to this shared AWS account. How can I do? uh for these type of things we can use the life cycle rules means like for the particular period of the time uh we can keep as the storage class will be like uh standard or something and after the use case we can move that to the other

bucket using a life cycle rules means like um in terapform we will be using like life cycle rules like transition and uh expiration. So using that we can move after our use case it will be automatically moved or whether it we need to delete it will be deleted automatically. >> So what is the use of replication rule? >> Replication. >> Yes. >> Yeah actually replication is like um once we connect any two of the buckets in the two different accounts um if we add anything to that bucket then the

same thing will be added in the other bucket as well. But if we delete the thing in that uh any of bucket the other bucket will won't be deleted that file. >> Can we achieve the same thing using the replication rule or life cycle rule? The question what I asked like moving the data from one as bucket to another as bucket. So for that should I use life cycle rule or replication rule? >> Replication rule. >> Okay. Have you worked with EKS as well? Yeah, actually in our project we use a

GKE but yeah I'm good with GK. >> Okay. What is permission boundary in IM? >> Permission boundary is like um limitation of the access means like if any of the user or service account or anything we keep a boundaries to it means like he is allowed to do this sort of permissions only mean the this sort of actions only. Apart from that we are not allowing the users to do any other actions. >> Okay. So the same thing can be uh like uh controlled by the policy as well. Correct? Like there is a user for that

user I have attached the Amazon uh like AWS VPC full access. So what is the role of permission boundary here? uh if you want to give all the things uh related to VPC then you can give admin related role to him. >> Okay. What is the default route in your main route table? Not sure. >> Okay. So just suppose that I have a EC2 instance in AWS account A. I have hosted one application and uh there is AWS account uh B you can say and in that uh as account B we are just keeping all the databases. Now my application has to

connect with the database so that it can read the data. It can write the data. So how will you ensure that your application should get established like it uh it should be a able to establish the communication with your databases. Yeah actually whatever the micros service you are using for your application uh for connecting that to the database we actually use like database related roles for that service account. So it will be automatically connected to the database. But what if the this case will be possible only if

the account is same in the account one means like the micros service and the database needs to be in the same >> but your question is like the database and the microser are both in different accounts right? >> Yes. >> Uh for this the integration of the two accounts uh we can use like uh peering or something like that uh connection pairing or something is there. >> Yes. Yes. Go ahead. >> It's like yeah for connecting a two VPCs we need to have the connecting P connections or something is there. I'm

not sure it >> yes it's VPC pairing. Yes. So are you aware how to configure VPC pairing? Yeah, actually the C of project one means like the AWS account one needs to be connected to the mentioned in the AWS account two and the AWS account to C needs to be mentioned in the AWS account one. So this way the communication will be established. >> Okay. Are you aware about transit gateway as well? >> Transit gateway. Yes. [Music] It's okay. Okay. So just suppose that I have this

load balancer correct which is routing the traffic between the number of servers correct that we have created and I have created multiple target groups as well. But out of the these multiple target groups I see that one of the my target group is unhealthy. So what can be the possible causes for your target group to be unhealthy and how will you resolve this? Yeah, the reason for going to unhealthy is like uh the probes are not ready means like we mentioned the probes are health checks in our parts or the nodes.

So if any of the probe is failed because of not readiness or these like things uh we usually get the no healthy upstreams. So for these type of uh things firstly we need to go to the logs and check the logs. What is the main issue? What is causing this issue? Why not >> I'm talking about this uh target group only. Right now I'm I'm not in the Q&A set as of now. I'm just focused on the AWS. I'm talking about where I have created a load balancer. This load balancer has five target groups and

these target groups have their servers attached. Correct. Now I see one of the target group is unhealthy. It's just a application you can think which is hosted on the EC2 and this application is getting routed through load balancer to the different different EC2 machine. Till now there is no there is nothing no power and now target group is unhealthy. >> Yeah the possible reasons might be the CPU utilization or the memory utilization of that node reached maximum. So that might be one of the

reason and the possible reasons might be heavy load on that node servers. >> Okay. So what is the architecture of cubernates? >> Yeah, architecture is like it maintains a master and slaves. Uh master contains a etc API server scheduleuler and a manage controller. And coming to the worker service which contains a cube, cube proxy and C advisor or container runtime all those things are available in the worker nodes. >> Okay, got it. So uh I have mentioned my desired number of ports as five and uh I

see that only three number of parts are running correct in current uh in current situation. So how this will be fixed and what kind of action will happen within the cubernets? Yeah, >> actually it depends on the traffic you are getting to your application. Means like if you are getting the capability of a three parts only then Kubernetes automatically creates those three parts only. If >> the desired >> the load increases >> desired is five. >> Okay. Okay. Desired is five

and but it is keeping an active only three. >> Yes. Current situation is there there are only three ports but my desired configuration was five. So it should keep five ports. and only three parts are running. So what kind of action cabinets will take how other components will communicate to each other and it will uh like the howets work it matches the current estate with the desired one correct >> but I see the current estate is only having three number of ports but my desired was five. So how the cabinets

component will talk to each other and what will the flow? >> Yeah, actually there are three types means like minimum, desert and the maximum. Correct. >> If you keep a minimum as three >> then automatically it will create three. But as you said you mentioned desired as five but it has to be created five also. uh that depends on the might be one of the reasons just I'm guessing might be one of the reasons is like uh you give a CPU and the memory limits to your name space. So for that

name space uh the number of a parts that are able to create by the Kubernetes is only three. It is able to create a three only. While trying to create the fourth one it is getting error like uh uh no memory left or the out of memory. So this is one of the issue I >> Okay. Okay. Let's come to the second question. So I have run this keepl apply then hyphen deployment. That command correct to create your deployment uh to create your pods uh after the deployment like based on your deployment

configuration what you have passed correct. What will be the flow of this particular command? How will it work? >> Yeah. Whenever you are trying to create a new thing the after you give cube cut will apply firstly it will go to the API server of our Kubernetes cluster >> then the Kubernetes cluster will means like the API server receives whether it is a a creation or deletion or any update of your thing then it'll check with the scheduleuler and the scheduleuler will get the details from

the cube and uh scheduleuler will decide whether to create or whether to update and the node control manager or the port control manager will check the status uh from the API server and our etc will store that uh input means like um you give cub play right then that input will be stored in the etc and finally uh after getting the detailed information from the scheduleuler means it has to be created in node the pod has to be created in the node so API server will create after getting the information

from the >> okay so there are two number of nodes correct one node is called as one node is there with the T3.mmedium and there are other nodes which are which are having the capacity of C5.x text correct I'm running I'm running my 15 microservices out of the all these 15 there are two microservices which is like the heavy micros service you can think of which is having the login page and uh homepage which should get reflected every time whenever someone is hitting my application URL correct

>> so I want that these two uh microser parts should get scheduled over c5xar nodes only how will I ensure these kind of Yeah, for this type we can uh taint that node means like C5 node can be tainted and so the part that is going to be created also with the same toleration can be created in that uh node itself and for this we can use the node ainity node selector all those things comes under this thing only means like the part which are you are going to schedule that needs to be in the particular node.

So selecting a node via node ainity and operations. So can we have the other microser ports as well on that particular node which is marked as c5.xl large. >> Yeah. If a node is tainted then the pod needs to match with the tolerations otherwise uh any part cannot be scheduled in that node. >> Okay. How do you do a cluster upgrade? >> Yeah actually we use a such upgrades for our cluster upgrades. uh means like what such upgrade is like it will keep the it will create for suppose we are

maintaining a six nodes in our production out of the six node we use the search and the max unavailable as well means like the search upgrade we give two it means it will create the two new nodes and it'll drain the two old nodes it will drain and corden the nodes and it'll move the all the parts to the newly created nodes then it'll delete the old parts old nodes and we keep at the same time we keep a max >> we ensure that the whatever the new ports are getting launched correct so

that will be or the same nodes correct there are six number of nodes as you mentioned out of the six you did the drain to the two number of nodes correct so how Qates will know that the parts which has been evicted from these nodes will get a schedule to the newer nodes only it is not getting a schedule to the existing node itself yeah actually the new search nodes will be created from the two node outside right so it'll take the configurations of the two nodes so it'll be drained of that nodes and the uh those things of

the old nodes will be coming to the new only why because it is configured with the same configurations of the old nodes okay so there are no troll relation as of now correct just suppose that you had you had this six number of nodes and all the ports were running to the six nodes when you are doing the cluster upgrade according to what you are explaining I'm just guessing So out of these six nodes you have just removed the like or you have just drained the two number of nodes and two number of new nodes has been launched

there correct. So all together if I see there are eight number of nodes out of which four are the existing one which were there before two are the new one and two are the one which has been drained. Correct. This is the complete configuration. So how Kubernetes will know that the parts which has been es which has been drained from these two nodes which were already existing. Correct. Now these new ports like or the existing part which has been drained now will come to this new node only which has been created now. It will not go to

the nodes which were running before. How this cabinets will know? >> Yeah it's the same question which you asked before also. Yeah. Uh it's like uh yeah actually the new nodes will be created from the any two random nodes. >> Mhm. >> Right. The same configurations will be attached to the two new search nodes which were created. So automatically we reschedule that means we schedule the parts or the services or the things which are available in the nodes that has to be moved to this newly created

such nodes only or else it is the thing that is there in the search I think so I'm not sure of it >> okay no is sure so what is the difference between cloudatch and cloud watch events sorry cloudatch alarm and cloudatch events >> yeah actually cloudatch is for the monitoring Coming to alarms and events is like alarm is like we can um if the CPU utilization increases after this we set alarm means we need to get the notification of this um so alarm will be notified like that and coming to the

event is like event means it's a state change means like from false to true uh true to being false like that event is like if any of the node or pod crashes then we need to be notified Uh and apart from that let me tell you event with an example uh from outside mean like event is like if any of the bucket is loaded then this pipeline needs to be triggered automatically. >> Okay. Got it. Yeah. So uh if I talk about uh cabinets once again. So I have this name space called as A and then second name space called as B or you can

think of production or staging. I have to ensure that all the ports from the production and staging should get communicated with each other. Ideally it doesn't happen but if I have to communicate within between the like I have to establish the communication between from one name space to another name space what can I do ideally it won't but uh there is something to establish the connection between the name spaces >> you can think of rather than production esting in one name space I'm keeping all

the secrets and in another name space my application is running all the microservices are running so these part needs to get the detail of secrets correct there are some details which I understood so I have to establish the communication between these two uh name spaces >> yeah actually for connecting a microservices we can use the labels and selectors but if they are in the different name spaces uh the things >> okay within the same name space there are five number of microservices how one

micros service or the pods which are running for one service communicate with another microser pod they all are running independently correct there is another pod pod one pod two pod five how this pod knows that I have to communicate with that second pod or third pod >> yeah we can use the same type of labels for the application and the same selector can be used for uh getting communication between one port to the another port Okay. If I have to restrict the communication between these two names

production and staging, what can I do >> restrict means by default it won't have any communication. So you can keep like >> actually by default the all names message all the ports can communicate with each other. That's why the second question was there. Okay. So just suppose that I have a docker image out of which my container is running. Correct. And now I have to delete this image. Can I do while my container is running out of that image? >> Uh no while container is running it is

not possible. You need to stop the container and then only you can delete the thing. >> It's okay. So what kind of all the stages you have written for your genkins pipeline? I hope >> yeah actually we use multiband pipeline for this. >> Mhm. Uh coming to the stages that involve in know Jenkins pipeline is like uh getting the code from the GitHub >> and uh for the scanning purpose we use a sonar and the build is like we create a images using a docker and for the scanning the image of a docker we use

tree and for the deployment purpose we use a kubernetes helm and apart from that the for the monitoring purpose we use a direct these are the stages let me define in a simple way first stage is like getting the code and the second stage is like security scanning of the code and the third thing is like building it with the docker and the next thing is like uh deploying it to the Kubernetes using the manifest files. >> Okay. Have you worked with the H template as well? >> Yeah. Yes. >> Okay. What is Helm?

>> Yeah. Helm is like a package manager for our Kubernetes. It contains all the ML files that are required to deploy an application in a kubernetes which contains all the deployment files, service files and uh here by default we get all these templates instead of writing. So that is the use case of >> okay. So if I talk about genkins itself, I have to uh like control the roles and permission. Correct. There are 10 uh 10 users. Out of the 10 users, I have to give someone to admin access kind of

thing. Someone as only to access of executing the pipeline. So how do we control all the roles and the permission within the Jenkins itself? Yeah, there is a user management thing in the Jenkins. So, we create the users and we can grant the roles accordingly. Means like as part of a DevOps team, I need a admin level of things. So, I request the admin means like the administrator to grant me admin or the deletion or the console output view building the pipelines all those things. So, he'll sort out all those things and

he'll grant me all the things then I'll be able to do the things in Jenkins. >> Okay. Likewise for the development team and the testing team will be the different roles. >> So if I have a two modules correct VPC and AC2 >> and I have to pass the VPC ID at runtime to EC2 module. >> What can I do? >> For this you can use the means like ID a uh that resource name dot resource type do ID that you can use in the EC2 instance while creating. So it will be take that VPC and it will

give the input as a EC2. So it will be created under that VPC itself. >> Yeah, I'm talking about module outputs. So there is a main.tf in which I'm calling module BPC. Then I'm calling this module EC2. I have to pass the like in the while calling this module HC2 I have to pass the VPC ID. So what syntax I will be using to pass the VPC ID which is being created on the top of that in the same file. >> Okay. Means at the same time you are creating or it is already there. >> It's same time there's a main.tf in

which there is a call module for the VPC and then there's a second module for the EC2 creation. I will run this terapform apply and main.tf will be called. Correct. So VPC will be created and after that EC2 needs to be created >> and I have to pass the VPC ID at the same time. >> Yeah actually for this we can use the dependency like depends on means like the EC2 instance has to be created only after the VPC is created and at the same time you can mention that label like uh as I mentioned resource name dot

resource type uh do ID that can be inserted into the EC2. So once the VPC is created the ECP instance creation will be started. >> Okay. So you mentioned about the dinators I think you have used this din as IPM tool correct for the monitoring. >> Yeah. >> So what all setup you have done for for the dinet test like how do you configure your DET to monitor the system? Yeah, actually we integrated Dress with our cluster means like the agents will be installed in the Detress itself and

so that way the cluster uh updates or the cluster things uh and the Det will be monitored all those things. So we usually get a M if any of the production server fails or if it gets if if there is a new customer and for that customer on boarding I have to deploy the Destress. Correct? I have to uh get the data of the new customer on the D. So what kind of setup we will do? How will you go from the scratch? >> Yeah. Means like the configuration from the starting onwards is like that your cluster is there and your Dress is

installed. The communication between these two will be established using Detress agents will be there. >> So we can install that. >> Mhm. Yeah. Yeah. Go ahead. >> Yeah. That's how using the dynress agent the communication will be established and uh the monitoring can be done >> where this dyn will be deployed. >> Yeah, in our cluster itself. >> Okay. And how will it be deployed? >> Yeah, actually we'll be using one of the node for the detection with the cluster.

So in that node all the things will be stored and it will be communicated to the det. So planet will visualize the all the things of our >> so it will work as a stateful set it will work as a demon set or it will work as a job or how will it get deployed >> as far as know it will be like a demon set only why because we get the incident like a demon set related things it is failed or it is upgraded how do we create conditional resources in terapform >> conditional resources in terapform

means like any >> yeah so if a particular flag is yes my terapform resource will be created if that particular flag is marked as no it will not be created so that kind of conditioning just suppose that your private subnet will be created only if internet gateway is marked as no if internet g marked as yes your public subnet will be created or your publicity will be created so that kind of conditioning how can you uh mention in terapform Not sure means like only that phase is completed then only this has to expand.

>> No. Uh it's like that if that particular flag is yes. If I'm saying this is yes then that resource will be called. If I say no that resource will not be called even though my pipeline is running. Yeah, using parameters in Jenkins we can create. >> Okay. Any major challenges that you have faced while working as a DevOps engineer and uh uh like any um input you have got after that like any learning you have achieved out of that. Yeah, usually the challenges are like the troubleshooting things only. Um

usually we get the things like uh dash flow back the port is not running the URL is not working and I'm getting access error what to do like these are of things challenges are like uh we usually get the troubleshooting things only manage mean like that includes like um I'm not able to query the thing I'm getting this like access denied and my part is not running even though my body is running I am unable to hit the URL it is getting no obstac issues we Yes. Um and as far as we know the things um as we already familiar

with the microservices and the resources which we are working so we know what to do with those things and I'm already familiar with the things that I'm working on. So it is easy for me to troubleshoot those type of issues. >> What all commands we use to troubleshoot and uh how do you like just suppose that you have got an error on which you see that uh there's a crash loop back off. So how do you go get into the troubleshooting part? Yeah, actually it depends on the error. If it is a crash loop, then firstly I'll

check the logs of that part in the Kubernetes itself. If it shows like u that service account doesn't have enough permission to load the data from uh GCS to the BQ, then I'll check in the IM part whether that service account is actually having or not then I'll troubleshoot that. If it is related to the code related issue, then I'll let the developer know the issue. Then he'll fix and rerun and I rerun the pipeline. Then again if I get the things and I am not sure of the things then I'll

describe the port once and I'll log the ports and even though if I'm not sure of the things then I'll do the redeployment means like I'll just restart the thing then it'll work. So >> what are the what are all the commands you will utilize to restart to check the logs to like all the QL commands? Yeah, firstly I'll describe the part using a cube cut describe pod and the port name and if I didn't get anything then I check the logs as well. Cube cut log and the part name and for even if

that things doesn't work then I'll just restart the cube cattle roll out restart deploy deployment name that's the commands that I use based on the error the commands will change. >> Okay. Have you worked with the cell scripting as well? You have mentioned best. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. a little bit only not much. So if I have to find out like what are all the files are consuming the high disk high disk space correct so how can I write the cell scripting for the same there's a particular directory on this

directory there are thousand number of files I have to identify that which all files are taking the high space high disk space >> okay generally for getting the disk space or something we can use the command like df minus message but for the particular folder all the files that are using or consuming the data in duty means like uh that I'm not sure means like uh we can check in on our file manager but the things but using >> okay so if I talk about persistent volume where does this exist in kernets

>> yeah actually it is part of volumes uh with line um the persistent volume for storing our ports or anything. So actually persistent volume can be created from the EBS volume means like um the cloud volume will be integrated with our Kubernetes. So using PV only it will be managed and from PV we can create a PVC which is a persistent volume claim uh that can be climbed by our parts and the services or or all those things. Can PBC be created dynamically or it's a static one? >> Dynamically in the sense it will be

created only if our pod uh uses that uh once created then only the BBC will be created. >> Okay. So just suppose that I'm developing uh application code and I have to post my code to the GitHub repository. How will you do? Yeah, if that code is in local repository >> local system >> now you yeah local uh now you want to post that to the remote repository for those things you need to get give a gad after the creation of the files and writing the code then you need to commit

that using the g commit and type and commit message then you can push that to the remote repository get push >> okay what is the difference between g pull and g fetch Yeah, get pool is like the combination of fetch and match means like it will fetch the details and then it will match to the our local. What fetch is like it will just get the details means like what is the difference between what are the files change it that's it. >> Okay. How do we store a state file in terapform?

Yeah, actually after giving you apply state will be created but um the recommended ways to keep that safely is like uh we can back end that into the S3. >> Mhm. >> So it will be stored in the S3 whenever we are required that S3 if even if we delete that uh state file then we can get that from the S3. >> Okay. What are the provisioners in terapform? Yeah, provisioners are like doing some action in the local or remote. The types of a provisioners are like local and the remote and the file.

>> What local? >> What is the use of null resource in terapform? >> Uh null resource I'm not sure this >> it's okay. They have worked with the nible. What is prehook in anible? uh actually Manisha in our project we didn't use uh we don't use this anible but externally I learned this and in the meantime I didn't get chance to look into it so I kept like it I need to look into it actually it is a configuration management tool >> used for uh doing the things in the

remote servers from our local server all mean like if you are having a 100 servers or you can do all the things at a time in that 100 servers using an for that we need to write a playbook s files all those things but I need to deep dive into it once again for answering the questions I've answered. >> Okay. So I see you have mentioned about Prometheus and Graphana. So what kind like how have you set up the complete uh architecture for this? How Prometheus and Graphana you are utilizing?

>> Yeah actually I personally worked on this means like it is not part of our project. Um actually the setup he includes like I used a helm repositories that are already available. So I integrated that with my pods uh the actually I created a kaps cluster and I integrated promeththeus with the kaps cluster and later um I installed the graphana as well and I just integrated in the UI of a graphana I integrated with the promises that I installed. So the complete UI of my cluster will be visible in the graphana. So using some

port numbers like 315 or 6417 or some type of a port numbers you can view the things whatever you want means like uh by the full name space or the ports or the things based on that port numbers you can view it is like view only it will change according to the port number. >> Okay. What do you understand by mutable and immutable in docker? Docker mutable and immutable. [Music] Mutable means the changeable thing and the immutable is that we cannot change and related to docker that is like uh

based on what means like any image or after giving the image name whether we can change the name or not like that I think. >> Yes sir. So can we actually >> okay let me come to the uh question. So I have a image marked as latest and I want to change the same image with the new code or the new uh like any of the configuration what I have changed at the code level. I want to update the same image. Can I do can I update the same image? >> Yeah it is possible. It will be created with the same name but the earlier image

will go into the dangling state means the non stage. Mhm. >> Whatever the image name is. For suppose you created an image using name called S, but you upgraded the code and you deployed the code and the same image name you want. Then the S will be created but the previous S will be going to the non stage. Okay. On this GitHub repository, I have a branch called as master. And out of this uh master branch, I have created a tag. You can think of a tag 10.0. Now when I when I have deployed this

10.0, I found that there is a bug. Correct? >> Now I have created the like hot fix and I want to push the changes into this uh branch only. So what kind of a strategy do you follow for this hot fix deployment? It's like if I found any bug in present code then I'll re that code first and then I'll go with the new new code for that reverting I use get re and the commit it's the production code >> okay you cannot yeah you can go to the new uh earlier version but like um if I have to

deploy the hot fix itself the question itself is like you have a branch correct on that branch branch you have pushed your code changes and you have created a tag. I hope you I you have worked with the tags correct on the tag on Git >> and this tag is marked as 10.0. Now I have changed my code from 100 to 120. I want to push the changes to this tag only. So can we do can we update the same tag? >> Yeah it is possible man. Uh we can squash all the commits and we can get into that uh same tag.

means like uh whatever the changes you made with the new code then you can attach that to the previous commit itself and that commit will has already tagged to the 10.0 then the new code will also get the same 10.0 zero. >> It's okay. Yeah. Thanks. I thanks for the interview. >> Yeah. Thanks, man.
